And I thank you, Sen. McCain and Mrs. McCain, for the confidence that
you have placed in me. Senator, I am honored to be chosen as your
running mate. I will be honored to serve next to the next president of
the United States.

I know that when Sen. McCain gave me this opportunity, he had a short
list of highly qualified men and women, and to have made that list at
all â€” it was a privilege. And to have been chosen brings a great
challenge. I know that it will demand the best that I have to give, and
I promise nothing less.

First, there are a few people whom I would like you to meet. I want to
start with my husband, Todd. And Todd and I are actually celebrating our
20th anniversary today, and I promised him a little surprise for the
anniversary present, and hopefully he knows that I did deliver.

And then we have as â€” after my husband, who is a lifelong commercial
fisherman, lifetime Alaskan â€” he's a production operator. Todd is a
production operator in the oil fields up on Alaska's North Slope, and
he's a proud member of the United Steelworkers Union, and he's a world
champion snow machine racer. Todd and I met way back in high school, and
I can tell you that he is still the man that I admire most in this
world.

Along the way, Todd and I have shared many blessings, and four out of
five of them are here with us today. Our oldest son, Track, though,
he'll be following the presidential campaign from afar. On Sept. 11 of
last year, our son enlisted in the United States Army. Track now serves
in an infantry brigade. And on Sept. 11, Track will deploy to Iraq in
the service of his country. And Todd and I are so proud of him and of
all the fine men and women serving the country in uniform.

Next to Todd is our daughter Bristol; another daughter, Willow; our
youngest daughter, Piper; and over in their arms is our son Trig, a
beautiful baby boy. He was born just in April. His name is Trig Paxson
Van Palin.

Some of life's greatest opportunities come unexpectedly, and this is
certainly the case today. I never really set out to be involved in
public affairs, much less to run for this office. My mom and dad both
worked at the local elementary school. And my husband and I, we both
grew up working with our hands.

I was just your average "hockey mom" in Alaska. We were busy raising our
kids. I was serving as the team mom and coaching some basketball on the
side. I got involved in the PTA and then was elected to the City Council
and then elected mayor of my hometown, where my agenda was to stop
wasteful spending and cut property taxes and put the people first.

I was then appointed ethics commissioner and chairman of the Alaska Oil
and Gas Conservation Commission, and when I found corruption there, I
fought it hard and I held the offenders to account. Along with fellow
reformers in the great state of Alaska, as governor, I've stood up to
the old politics as usual, to the special interests, to the lobbyists,
the Big Oil companies and the "good old boy" network.

When oil and gas prices went up so dramatically and the state revenues
followed with that increase, I sent a large share of that revenue
directly back to the people of Alaska â€” and we are now â€” we're now
embarking on a $40 billion natural gas pipeline to help lead America to
energy independence.

I signed major ethics reforms, and I appointed both Democrats and
independents to serve in my administration. And I've championed reform
to end the abuses of earmark spending by Congress. In fact, I told
Congress thanks, but no thanks, on that "bridge to nowhere." If our
state wanted a bridge, I said, we'd build it ourselves.

Well, it's always, though, safer in politics to avoid risk, to just kind
of go along with the status quo. But I didn't get into government to do
the safe and easy things. A ship in harbor is safe, but that's not why
the ship is built. Politics isn't just a game of competing interests and
clashing parties. The people of America expect us to seek public office
and to serve for the right reasons. And the right reason is to challenge
the status quo and to serve the common good.

Now, no one expects us to agree on everything, whether in Juneau or in
Washington. But we are expected to govern with integrity and goodwill
and clear convictions and a servant's heart.

Now, no leader in America has shown these qualities so clearly or
presents so clear a threat to business as usual in Washington as
Sen. John S. McCain. This â€” this is a moment when principles and
political independence matter a lot more than just the party line. And
this is a man who has always been there to serve his country, not just
his party.

And this is a moment that requires resolve and toughness and strength of
heart in the American president. And my running mate is a man who has
shown those qualities in the darkest of places and in the service of his
country. A colleague once said about Sen. McCain: That man did things
for this country that few people could go through; never forget
that. And that speaker was former Sen. John Glenn of Ohio. And John
Glenn knows something about heroism.

And I'm going to make sure nobody does forget that in his
campaign. There is only one candidate who has truly fought for America,
and that man is John McCain.

This is a moment -- this is a moment when great causes can be won and
great threats overcome, depending on the judgment of our next
president. In a dangerous world, it is John McCain who will lead
America's friends and allies in preventing Iran from acquiring nuclear
weapons.

It was John McCain who cautioned long ago about the harm that Russian
aggression could do to Georgia and to other small democratic neighbors
and to the world oil markets.

It was Sen. McCain who refused to hedge his support for our troops in
Iraq, regardless of the political costs. And you know what? As the
mother of one of those troops and as the commander of Alaska's National
Guard, that's the kind of man I want as our commander in chief.

Profiles in courage, they can be hard to come by these days. You know,
so often we just find them in books. But next week when we nominate John
McCain for president, we're putting one on the ballot!

To serve as vice president beside such a man would be the privilege of a
lifetime, and it's fitting that this trust has been given to me 88 years
almost to the day after the women of America first gained the right to
vote.

I think as well today of two other women who came before me in national
elections. I can't begin this great effort without honoring the
achievements of Geraldine Ferraro in 1984, and, of course, Sen. Hillary
Clinton, who showed such determination and grace in her presidential
campaign.

It was rightly noted in Denver this week that Hillary left 18 million
cracks in the highest, hardest glass ceiling in America. But it turns
out the women of America aren't finished yet, and we can shatter that
glass ceiling once and for all.

So for my part, the mission is clear. The next 67 days I'm going to take
our campaign to every part of our country and our message of reform to
every voter of every background, in every political party, or no party
at all. If you want change in Washington, if you hope for a better
America, then we're asking for your vote on the 4th of November.

My fellow Americans, come join our cause. Join our cause and help our
country to elect a great man the next president of the United
States. And I thank you, and I â€” God bless you, I say, and God bless
America. Thank you.

